(Cory Joseph)
My name is Cory Joseph,
and I’m a user experience
and usability designer.
(Chris Higgins)
And what does that mean?
(Cory Joseph)
I make technology understandable.
To get here today,
I used Uber
just like anyone else would.
But on top of that,
I also used another app
called BlindSquare.
I entered in the address
to Uber and called my ride
just like anyone else would.
But I also entered
my destination into BlindSquare.
And BlindSquare will notify me
of major intersections,
major points of interest,
and major address changes
as we’re moving along,
via voice.
So while I’m in the Uber
and we’re riding along,
I don’t have to just rely
on the driver knowing
where we are.
I actually knew
where we were as well
because BlindSquare was announcing
major points of interest
and intersections.
And when we were
at Burnside and MLK,
I knew where
we were as well.
I wasn’t at the behest
of the driver.
For example,
getting here today,
I actually went
into the dance studio
that’s two buildings over.
Walked in.
Asked the person at the desk,
“Hey,
is this the right location?”
And I was told,
“Nope. You’re two blocks shy.”
And that’s how I got
to where I needed to be.
I went to the wrong place.
Sometimes it’s a little bit
of trial and error.
This concept
of trial and error
is just such a base part
of my life.
To figure out
how to take a math test
when I was in grade school.
We didn’t get it right
the first time we tried.
And we didn’t get it right
the third time.
It wasn’t until I was older
and going more through school
that I knew what to do.
There was a lot
of figuring shit out.
Of course I go
to the movies.
I really enjoy movies.
Throughout high school
and college,
going to the movies
with friends
was one of the most
common things I did.
Because, hey, why not?
There are movies
that I haven’t been able
to enjoy as much as others.
Let’s take something
like Avatar, right?
There’s elements
of the visual experience
that are just lost on me.
But, of course,
it’s more than just
the visual experience.
There’s the sound,
there’s the dialogue,
there’s the plot.
There’s being there
with your friends
and being able to talk
about the things that happened.
There’s a lot that goes
into the movie experience
more than video and visuals.
There are movies
that I just don’t get to enjoy.
Take something like Pan’s Labyrinth
that’s in Spanish.
Even though I know
multiple languages
and can see movies
in Japanese or Chinese
or German
and stumble my way through
listening to them,
something in Spanish
… can’t do.
Can’t enjoy at all.
And Pan’s Labyrinth would be
a great example of one that,
hey, it’s award-winning.
My friends have seen it.
They talk about all the things
that happened.
And I’m totally at a loss
because I can’t read subtitles.
I couldn’t go see it.
I can’t download a movie
that’s subtitled on iTunes.
And if I do download
a movie that’s subtitled
and I didn’t know it,
well, that’s five bucks I’m out.
It’s one thing to acknowledge,
oh, yeah,
blind people want
to read my blog.
It’s another thing
to actually make your blog
readable by blind people.
It’s one thing to say yes,
people in wheelchairs
want to shop at Walmart.
It’s another thing
to actually figure out
how and where
to put the ramp,
what incline the ramp
needs to be,
where’s the best place
to put the door
that the ramp goes to.
These are two
very disparate areas,
in my point of view.
There’s the consideration;
then there’s the actual
implementation in design.
You design for accessibility,
and you build for usability.
These two distinct areas
cross over,
where there’s all
of these details
that we need
to consider as designers.
But as creators,
we have a responsibility
to create in a way
that takes all those considerations
and actually brings them to life.
Ten years ago,
if I wanted a phone
that I could use
as a digital assistant,
it required a special phone,
with special software,
that cost over $1,000
just for the software.
Now, ten years later,
we’re at a point
that I can walk
into any cell phone carrier
and buy nearly any phone
and be able to use it
right then and there.
As a visually impaired person,
I use a screen reader
on my phone called VoiceOver.
I also sometimes use
an Android device,
and I use TalkBack on that.
For this example,
I’m going to show VoiceOver.
[iPhone beeps]
(VoiceOver)
Messages.
(Cory Joseph)
Once my phone’s unlocked,
I’m told that I’m
on the Messages icon
on my home screen.
I can navigate
through the home screen
to my Messages area.
(VoiceOver)
Spotify, iTunes Store, Clock,
FantastiCal, Photos, Messages.
[iPhone clicks, beeps]
(VoiceOver)
Messages. To: text field, is editing.
Character mode:
insertion point at start.
(Cory Joseph)
Let’s send a text message
to Chris Higgins,
the director of this movie,
to let him know
we’re running five minutes late.
(VoiceOver)
C. Charlie. H.
[iPhone clicks]
(VoiceOver)
Chris Higgins, work,
503-555-0156.
[iPhone clicks]
(Cory Joseph)
I just double-tapped
on the name
that I want to send this to.
So I’ll swipe
to the text area
to put in my message.
(VoiceOver)
Chris Higgins. +1 503-555-0156.
Button: Add Contact.
Button: Attach Media.
Button: Message.
iMessage: text field.
Insertion point at end.
(Cory Joseph)
The double-tap
let the phone know
I want to enter text
in this area.
To make this easier
for this demonstration,
I’m going to use
the voice-to-text function.
[iPhone ticks]
(VoiceOver)
Caps, cap—dictate.
(Cory Joseph)
Hey, Chris.
I’m running 10 minutes late.
(VoiceOver)
Attach done.
Inserted: Hey Chris,
I’m running 10 minutes late.
Space. Return.
[iPhone ticks]
(VoiceOver)
Send, button.
[iPhone clicks]
(VoiceOver)
Send, dimmed.
Chris, text field, is editing.
Character mode.
iMessage,
insertion point at start.
[iPhone chimes]
(Chris Higgins)
I got a text message!
(VoiceOver)
Chris Higgins is typing.
Message received
from Chris Higgins:
No problem.
See you soon.
Chris Higgins stopped typing.
(Cory Joseph)
And now we’ve sent
a text message.
Of course,
like all technology,
there’s a time and place
for everything,
and speech is great
for most of how I use
my mobile device.
But when I’m on a meeting
or on the bus,
or on the train,
or at a coffee shop,
there’s a lot of times
I don’t want to use speech
or have to wear headphones
to listen to that speech.
So I use a device
called a braille display
that will show
what would normally
be spoken in braille
along a braille display.
I can even operate
the entire device
by keyboard command,
just like I would
on a standard PC
with any other screen reader.
(VoiceOver)
App Store. Settings.
iBooks. OneNote.
(Cory Joseph)
So my watch is actually
really unique
because it’s tactile
in a way that,
as a visually impaired person,
I can read it
with my fingers
by feeling the marble
on the front of the face
and the tick marks,
and the marble
on the side of the bezel
and the tick marks,
to read minutes
and hours, respectively.
It’s really unique
because it was a design project
from a military vet
that actually wanted something
that looked unique,
was durable,
and was tactile for someone
who is visually impaired.
The idea for this watch
is really straightforward:
it’s something that looks good
and is usable by everyone.
I’m not asking
for something special
so that I can use the thing.
I’m asking for the thing
to be usable or accessible
from the get-go.
I think developers
at a base level
know what accessibility is.
I don’t think they know
that they have to do
anything differently
to make something accessible.
It goes back to when
we were first learning
how to handle data privacy
and data security.
There was a time
when personal data was stored
as plain text in databases.
We had to learn
that these things
couldn’t happen like that
because it wasn’t secure.
Same thing with accessibility.
We have to learn
the best practices
that makes what we’re building
accessible from the get-go.
And right now I don’t think
developers are taught
that accessibility is something
they should be concerned with
from a very early point
in their education.
From a basic
human perspective,
we have rights
to access that information
and manage that information.
This goes all the way up
to government legislatures saying,
“Yes, you have access
to your health information.
to your financial information.
“Yes, you have rights
to manage all this information,
and organizations are responsible
to enable that.”
Well, when we’re talking
about all this information
that’s, by its definition,
electronic and managed
electronically,
we have to make sure
that everyone can access
that information
as a human right.
It makes access to information
the human right.
You know,
someone who’s really cynical
in this conversation
might say that
the call to action
is to give a shit.
But, in reality,
if you’re making something
or creating something,
of course you give a shit.
What I would ask people
to do is ask themselves,
as they are creating,
making, building, developing:
“Can I enjoy this if:
“if I’m a little slower
to use this,
“if I’m on a slow
internet connection,
“if I’m blind,
if I can’t hear,
“if I’m on a 10-year-old BlackBerry,
“if flashes hurt my eyes
and give me migraines,
if I’ve never used
a website like this?”
Ask yourself:
“Can I use this or enjoy this if …?”